Palestinians have gathered for Christmas
day mass at the church of the Nativity
in Bethlehem in the occupied West
[Music]
Bank celebrations have been muted this
year because of the war on Gaza
Bethlehem residents decided not to put
up the traditional Christmas tree out of
respect for the Palestinians suffering
under Israeli
[Music]
bombardment ibraim is with a Christian
family in Bethlehem joins us live from
there so how's the Christmas spirit
prevailing
there I can tell you Sammy that since
we've started covering the Christmas
season here in Bethlehem I haven't seen
a lot of trees this is a Christmas tree
here at the house of Charlie zidan and
Sabrina mker we'll be speaking to them
about their feelings in this Christmas
day being a Christian family from
Bethlehem thank you for allowing us into
your home Charlie and
um this is not usual that we see
Christmas trees many people have decided
that they they're not celebrating and
Sabrina you're a photographer usually
around this time you'll be filming
children with their families during
Christmas how is the Christmas spirit
this year and why did you put up the
tree um well to be honest this year um
is different than any other year um but
we've decided to put up the tree because
the kids asked for it and to be honest
um they've been crying a lot lately like
um asking why we're not celebrating just
like any other children um in any area
in the world so um I asked them if they
wanted a Christmas tree and they decided
that they do so we put up the Christmas
tree in the simplest way we can um just
to create a a little bit of spirit for
the Christmas celebrations for the kids
Is Zade happier now how is he dealing
with all of this you have two children
and Zade is five yeah well actually um I
can't say um it's normal and I can't say
it's regular just like any other
Christmas they have um they feel the
pain they feel the the stress they feel
the war they feel us not feeling very
well I mean emotionally we haven't been
very stable lately and of course the
kids can feel that and they've been
asking for the tree lighting for the
Christmas celebrations for the Christmas
Market because every day we spend uh our
Christmas very festive um with playing
Christmas music um taking them for
family visits and spending most of our
time in
bethleem um but this year has been so
different we couldn't do that but they
are finding their happiness in the
minimal things um like um playing with
their new toys um enjoying their
Christmas Vacation mainly that's it but
if you talk about the real Spirit of
Christmas it doesn't really exist I mean
um I took I took them to to church um I
try to to have some family visits um to
socialize because that's um our main so
support system it's the social um
relationships that's how we mainly try
to to spend our Christmas with family
and friends and Charlie how is that
season being felt how was the decision
to put up a
tree actually as Saina say that we put
that tree just to create the minimal
Spirit of Christmas because for me
Christmas it's about Joy about happiness
about
family uh yeah that's the main idea and
the purpose of putting the Christmas
tree in the end it's a tree and it's the
symbol of uh the Christmas symbol of the
uh you know the the celebration but it's
still I mean even though we are like um
in the season of Christmas but still we
feel the pain inside
and Charlie you also work in the mental
health sector how are you seeing
Palestinians going through this time
because we know that they're far away
from the besieged Gaza Strip but they
are feeling that pain of course exactly
actually I'm working now with an
international organizations and the main
uh I mean object of this the mission of
uh this organization is to give like uh
Services of mental health and
psychosocial support of course like West
Bank and has highly affected especially
when we are talking about the south of
Hebron and hundred and of Palestinians
who were displaced from their places
with the attack of the soldiers and um
the sers of course and they are like
living now in a very bad condition our
organization uh and me myself it's like
a personal value which is like support
these people these Palestinians with the
minimal uh services either Mental Health
Services or other services in
cooperation with other organizations yes
thank you thank you so much for allowing
us into your house Merry Christmas to
you and to your children and as we've
been reporting to you Christmas
celebrations have been canceled but
prayers did not stop people are calling
for a ceasefire they say it's imminent
it's needed now more than later thanks
so much ibraim there